Add DataFrame.merge() term entry (#6800)
Codecademy/docs: content/pandas/concepts/dataframe/terms/merge/merge.md

---
title: 'DataFrame: .merge()'
description: 'Merges two DataFrames based on a common key or index, similar to a SQL JOIN operation.'
subjects: ['Data Science', 'Python', 'Pandas']
tags: ['dataframe', 'merge', 'join', 'pandas']
catalogContent: ['Learn Pandas', 'Data Science Foundations']
---

The `.merge()` method combines two DataFrames based on a common key or index, similar to a SQL JOIN operation. This method is essential for combining datasets that share common columns or indices.

## Syntax

The `.merge()` method provides a flexible way to combine DataFrames using different types of joins. The following syntax shows all available parameters:

```python
DataFrame.merge(right, how='inner', on=None, left_on=None, right_on=None, left_index=False, right_index=False, suffixes=('_x', '_y'))
```

### Parameters

> - `right`: DataFrame or Series to merge with
> - `how`: Type of merge to perform
>   - 'inner': Only keep rows that exist in both DataFrames (default)
>   - 'outer': Keep all rows from both DataFrames
>   - 'left': Keep all rows from the left DataFrame
>   - 'right': Keep all rows from the right DataFrame
> - `on`: Column or index level names to join on
> - `left_on`: Columns or index levels from the left DataFrame to join on
> - `right_on`: Columns or index levels from the right DataFrame to join on
> - `left_index`: Use the index from the left DataFrame as the join key
> - `right_index`: Use the index from the right DataFrame as the join key
> - `suffixes`: Tuple of strings to append to overlapping column names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `right`: The DataFrame or named Series to merge with.
- `how`: Type of merge to perform:  
  - `'inner'`: Include only matching rows from both DataFrames.  
  - `'outer'`: Include all rows from both DataFrames, with NaNs where no match is found.  
  - `'left'`: Include all rows from the left DataFrame and matching ones from the right.  
  - `'right'`: Include all rows from the right DataFrame and matching ones from the left.
- `on`: Column or index level names to join on. Must exist in both DataFrames.
- `left_on`: Column(s) or index level(s) in the left DataFrame to use as join keys.
- `right_on`: Column(s) or index level(s) in the right DataFrame to use as join keys.
- `left_index`: Use the index from the left DataFrame as the join key.
- `right_index`: Use the index from the right DataFrame as the join key.
- `suffixes`: Suffixes to apply to overlapping column names from the left and right DataFrames.
```

## Example

The following example demonstrates a basic merge operation between two DataFrames using a common 'id' column:

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

import pandas as pd

# Create two sample DataFrames
df1 = pd.DataFrame({
    'id': [1, 2, 3, 4],
    'name': ['Alice', 'Bob', 'Charlie', 'David']
})

df2 = pd.DataFrame({
    'id': [1, 2, 3, 5],
    'age': [25, 30, 35, 40]
})

# Merge the DataFrames on the 'id' column
merged_df = df1.merge(df2, on='id')
```

The code above produces the following output:

```
   id    name  age
0   1   Alice   25
1   2     Bob   30
2   3  Charlie   35
```

Note that:

- Only rows with matching `id` values (1, 2, and 3) are included in the result
- The row with `id=4` from `df1` is excluded because it has no match in `df2`

> - The row with `id=5` from `df2` is excluded because it has no match in `df1`

Reviewer: Can you also please add a ##Codebyte Example block at the end.

> Note: A codebyte example block is not followed by he output block
